REST API compatiblity documentation (#83487)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/rest-api/rest-api-compatibility.asciidoc

> [[rest-api-compatibility]]

Author: I could use some help figuring out how to link up a couple TODO's below. Also, I left the line lengths long here in anticipation of many edits. I will reduce the length prior to merge.

[discrete]
[[request-rest-api-compatibility]]
=== Requesting REST API compatibility

REST API compatibility is implemented per request via the Accept and/or Content-Type headers.

For example:

[source, text]
------------------------------------------------------------
Accept: "application/vnd.elasticsearch+json;compatible-with=7"
Content-Type: "application/vnd.elasticsearch+json;compatible-with=7"
------------------------------------------------------------

The Accept header is always required and the Content-Type header is only required when a body is sent with the request.
The following values are valid when communicating with a 7.x or 8.x {es} server:
[source, text]
------------------------------------------------------------
"application/vnd.elasticsearch+json;compatible-with=7"
"application/vnd.elasticsearch+yaml;compatible-with=7"
"application/vnd.elasticsearch+smile;compatible-with=7"
"application/vnd.elasticsearch+cbor;compatible-with=7"
------------------------------------------------------------

> 
> The link:/guide[officially supported Elasticsearch clients] can enable REST API compatibility for all requests. TODO: link to https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/client/index.html
> To enable REST API compatibility for all requests set the environment variable `ELASTIC_CLIENT_APIVERSIONING` to true.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [link:/guide](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/client/index.html)[officially supported {es} clients] can enable REST API compatibility for all requests. 

To enable REST API compatibility for all requests received by {es} set the environment variable `ELASTIC_CLIENT_APIVERSIONING` to true.
```

[discrete]
=== REST API compatibility workflow

> 
> The recommended workflow for upgrading to a new major and leverage REST API compatibility is as follows (from 7.x to 8.x):
> 
> 1. Upgrade any officially supported Elasticsearch clients to the latest 7.x version and enable REST API compatibility. TODO: link to https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/client/index.html
> 2. Use the {kibana-ref}/upgrade-assistant.html[Kibana upgrade assistant] and review all critical issues. Some critical issues may be mitigated by REST API compatibility.
> 3. From the {kibana-ref}/upgrade-assistant.html[Kibana upgrade assistant] explore the deprecation logs and resolve all critical issues
> 4. Upgrade Elasticsearch to 8.x
> 5. Review the deprecation logs. If compatibility is invoked it will be logged to the deprecation logs with the category "compatible_api". Review the workflow associated with any invoked compatibility.
> 6. Upgrade the official {es} clients to the matching 8.x version resolving any cases where compatibility needs to be manually resolved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To leverage REST API compatibility during an upgrade from 7.17 to {version}:

1. Upgrade your https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/client/index.html[{es} clients] to the latest 7.x version and enable REST API compatibility. 
2. Use the {kibana-ref}/upgrade-assistant.html[Upgrade Assistant] to review all critical issues and explore the deprecation logs. Some critical issues might be mitigated by REST API compatibility.
3. Resolve all critical issues before proceeding with the upgrade.
4. Upgrade Elasticsearch to {version}.
5. Review the deprecation logs for entries with the category `compatible_api1`. Review the workflow associated with the requests that relied on compatibility mode.
6. Upgrade your {es} clients to 8.x and resolve compatibility issues manually where needed. 
```

For information about specific breaking changes and the impact of requesting
compatibility mode, see <<breaking_80_rest_api_changes, REST API changes>>
in the migration guide.

[discrete]
[[request-rest-api-compatibility]]
=== Requesting REST API compatibility

REST API compatibility is implemented per request via the Accept
and/or Content-Type headers.

For example:

[source, text]
------------------------------------------------------------
Accept: "application/vnd.elasticsearch+json;compatible-with=7"
Content-Type: "application/vnd.elasticsearch+json;compatible-with=7"
------------------------------------------------------------

The Accept header is always required and the Content-Type header is
only required when a body is sent with the request. The following values are
valid when communicating with a 7.x or 8.x {es} server:
[source, text]
------------------------------------------------------------
"application/vnd.elasticsearch+json;compatible-with=7"
"application/vnd.elasticsearch+yaml;compatible-with=7"
"application/vnd.elasticsearch+smile;compatible-with=7"
"application/vnd.elasticsearch+cbor;compatible-with=7"
------------------------------------------------------------

> The [link:/guide](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/client/index.html)[officially supported {es} clients]

Author: @debadair - can you help out again with this link the build still claims this as broken:

```
13:02:16 INFO:build_docs:  /tmp/docsbuild/target_repo/html/en/elasticsearch/reference/master/rest-api-compatibility.html contains broken links to:
13:02:16 INFO:build_docs:   - en/elasticsearch/client/index.html)
```

> The [link:/guide](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/client/index.html)[officially supported {es} clients]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/client/index.html[officially supported {es} clients]
```
